Tofu Stir Fry

Ingredients

For the Stir Fry

1 14-ounce package firm or extra firm tofu
2 cups roughly chopped green beans
1 cup diced carrots or red pepper
2 Tbsp toasted sesame oil for sautéing (or sub peanut or coconut)

For the Sauce

1/4 cup low-sodium soy sauce (make sure it’s gluten free if G-Free)
1 Tbsp fresh grated ginger
2 Tbsp brown sugar
1 Tbsp agave, maple syrup (or honey if not vegan)
1 Tbsp corn starch


Instructions

Preheat oven to 400 degrees and begin drying your tofu. Drain, remove it from the package and place between two thick towels folded into the shape of the tofu. Then place a plate or bowl on top and top it with something heavy like a book or skillet.

Let it dry for about 15 minutes, changing your towels if they get too wet. Once dry, chop into roughly 1-inch cubes or rectangles (see photo).

Arrange tofu on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking sheet to prevent sticking and bake for a total of 25-35 minutes, flipping once halfway through to ensure even cooking. This will dry out the tofu and help give it a more meat-like texture. If you want a tougher texture, cook it for 30-35. For a slightly more tender texture, pull it out at 20-25 minutes to check.

Once it’s golden brown and a bit tough and firm, remove from the oven set it out to dry a bit more while you prep your vegetables. Ideally, it would set out another 45 minutes or even longer. I haven’t tried letting it set out for much longer, but I don’t think it would hurt either way.

If serving over rice, start the rice at this point.

In a small mixing bowl, whisk together all of the sauce ingredients – set aside.

To a large skillet over medium-high heat, add sesame oil and swirl to coat. Then add veggies and toss to coat. Cook for 5-7 minutes, stirring often. When the vegetables have some color and have softened a bit, add the sauce and stir. It should bubble and thicken. Then add the tofu and stir to coat.

Cook the mixture for 3-5 minutes, stirring often. When veggies are cooked to your preferred doneness, remove from heat. Serve as is or over rice for a more filling meal. Best when eaten fresh, though will keep in the refrigerator for a couple days.
